README.md, before:

# aste
Compile time and run time options for the
Arctic Subpolar gyre sTate Estimate (ASTE).

## Contents

Organized by resolution. 
For now, only "mini-aste" is here: `aste_90x150x60`, with directories:
- code/ 
    - compile time options and changes from the main MITgcm branch
    - Note: this used to have the suffix `_BE2_dthetadr_sshv4mo_fix_logdkr` 
- code-async/
    - code enabling asynchronous output through the MITgcm 
- input/
    - run time options
    - Note: this used to have the suffix `_BE2_dthetadr_sshv4mo_fix_logdkr`

## Instructions

Checkout the [MITgcm](https://github.com/MITgcm/MITgcm):

```
git clone https://github.com/MITgcm/MITgcm.git
```
or
```
git clone git@github.com:MITgcm/MITgcm.git
```

and get checkout 65q as follows:

``` 
cd MITgcm
git checkout checkpoint65q
```


And see the [MITgcm documentation](https://mitgcm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) for instructions on 
[building](https://mitgcm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/getting_started.html#building-the-model)
and 
[running](https://mitgcm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/getting_started.html#running-the-model)
the model.

Commit message:

Release 1 (#3)
* move stuff around, add jupyter notebook

* citation

README.md, after:

# Arctic Subpolar gyre sTate Estimate (ASTE)

[![Binder](http://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/timothyas/aste-release1/main?filepath=aste_llcreader_example.ipynb)

The repo for ASTE Release 1: 

Nguyen, An, Heimbach, P., Ocaña, V., Pillar, H., Bigdeli, A., & Smith, T. (2020). The Arctic Subpolar gyre sTate Estimate: a data-constrained and dynamically consistent ocean-sea ice estimate for 2002–2017. Submitted to Journal of Advances in Modeling Earth Systems.


## Analyzing ASTE Output

Click on the Binder button above to see how to access ASTE Release 1 output,
using [xmitgcm](https://xmitgcm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).
to create an
[xarray](http://xarray.pydata.org/en/stable/)
Dataset on the fly with [dask](https://dask.org/).
Calculations and visualizations are enabled by
[xgcm](https://xgcm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
and [ecco_v4_py](https://ecco-v4-python-tutorial.readthedocs.io/index.html).

## Instructions to re-run ASTE

Specific compile and runtime options coming soon!

Checkout the [MITgcm](https://github.com/MITgcm/MITgcm):

```
git clone https://github.com/MITgcm/MITgcm.git
```
or
```
git clone git@github.com:MITgcm/MITgcm.git
```

and get checkout 65q as follows:

``` 
cd MITgcm
git checkout checkpoint65q
```


And see the [MITgcm documentation](https://mitgcm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) for instructions on 
[building](https://mitgcm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/getting_started.html#building-the-model)
and 
[running](https://mitgcm.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started/getting_started.html#running-the-model)
the model.
